hi guys what's up and welcome back to my
channel so lately I've been getting a
lot of questions from you guys about how
can I get stronger at home is it even
possible to build my metabolism from
home these questions have been coming up
while on YouTube also Instagram and I
thought I would share three strategies
with you today to help you get strong at
home even if you don't have access to a
gym even if you don't have access to
heavy weights at home these three
strategies are going to really help you
build muscle at home even though you
don't have the best you know the best of
the best right now and I don't either so
I have been using these strategies
myself the last two and a half months
and still gaining muscle still being
able to build my metabolism it's been
going well and there also proven
strategies there's lots of research on
them so without further ado let me give
you guys these three top tips for
building strength at home okay so
strategy number one is to use something
called tempo now a little bit of
breakdown of the science of building
muscle here just so you understand how
tempo works the way you build muscle is
by putting your muscle under stress when
we lift weights we're putting stress on
the muscle and it literally has to adapt
to get stronger to carry the load to
hear the weight so the idea of tempo is
that you're increasing not the load of
the weight but the time under tension of
the muscles so if you increase the
amount of time your muscle is having to
undergo that stress okay that exercise
then you're going to have to build
muscle anyways you're going to get
stronger this is known as time under
tension and tempo and I'm going to show
you guys how to use it now if you think
about any exercise literally think about
like a bicep curl a squat every single
exercise has two phases two main phases
there's the lowering and the raising or
you know going down and then going up on
the way down this is typically the
lengthening because
or the eccentric part of the movement
and then on the way back is usually the
shortening part of the movement so their
muscle bit shorter or the concentric
part now the idea what time under
tension is that you want to create more
time and more more of a hold or more
time spent in the eccentric or
lengthening position this is also if you
like are not sure which part is the
eccentric just do the exercise and then
whatever part feels harder for you to do
that's the part that you want to
increase the time under tension for so
let's take a couple examples here with
your bicep curl you can increase the
time under tension and use tempo just by
lowering down slower than you normally
do during the eccentric phase and then
you can come back up for a count of one
like you would normally do that exercise
at the gym this is gonna increase the
time under tension help you get stronger
at home even if you only have five
pounds even if you only have you know a
plastic bat bag filled with soup cans or
literally not a lot of weight even if
you have just resistance bands this is
gonna go so far I've been using it in
almost all my exercises to help get
stronger at home and what's really cool
is when you slow movements down at home
you actually start to build a lot more
functional fitness meaning more of your
more of the muscles the smaller muscles
sort of the accessory muscles they are
going to be doing so much more work when
you do bodily exercises because there's
a lot more stabilizing that goes on
there's more core work so I've actually
found that I've gotten stronger in good
ways then I used to go into the gym just
because the gym is a lot of isolation
it's a lot of isolating certain muscles
and working on the prime movers these
are the I don't know I put this in
quotation marks they're literally called
the prime movers the biggest muscle
groups and your body that are carrying
out your movements but the accessory
muscle is a smaller muscles muscles in
the core the stabilizers these are also
really important and they get really
when you do calisthenics finding that
type of thing so using time under
tension is gonna go a really long way
and helping you get stronger even when
you don't have a lot of weights and when
you get stronger remember you guys you
get stronger you're actually building
your metabolism because you're putting
on muscle and that allows you to eat
more calories as Apetit burn more
calories at rest or in calories in your
sleep and that's a little goal a couple
more exercises for where to slow down so
with the squat you'll want to go on the
way down slower so you can go down for a
count of three three two one and then at
the bottom of the squat you can also
hold for an additional second or two to
really increase that time energy on time
under tension fire the glutes and then
stand up to a count of one so that's
just a couple examples of how you can
use tempo to get stronger at home in the
absence of heavy weights ok the second
strategy I have for you guys working at
home is to refrain from doing
high-intensity exercise every single day
I know that it seems like we're not
moving as much so when we do move it
should be high and like all out and just
you know if both of the wall crazy
burpees and squat jumps but I want you
to refrain from doing this because
high-intensity interval training is a
great tool but it's not when you use it
every day it's not going to help you
burn fat if you do it seven days a week
or even five days a week that's too much
the reason why is because it can be
really stressful on the body and there's
a stress hormone called cortisol that
tends to be produced in the body
naturally when exercises too intense or
you're under a lot of stress you we also
naturally produce cortisol just from
stress and anxiety and for a lot of us
our stress levels are a little higher
right now just being at home a lot not
being closer to loved ones and friends
so we really want to manage our cortisol
levels because cortisol if there's high
levels of it in our system
a it basically removes the ability to
burn fat
it's totally squashes your fat loss
goals so make sure that you keep your
cortisol levels as low as possible by
limiting your high intensity workouts to
one to two times per week that's all you
need you know quick hit sessions 20
minutes and also make sure you're taking
care of your mental health and other
ways throughout the week you know
meditation FaceTime calls whatever you
can do to keep your first levels low
because if we want you to still
obviously be achieving your goals from
home and going just like as hard as fast
as we can with workouts is not the goal
you really want to focus on like I said
with the strategy number one slowing
things down working on building muscle
it's tedious work but you're gonna feel
better you're gonna get stronger and it
honestly it's not easier it's just
simpler to go slower and it's not going
to feel like crap you know like it's so
hard to do all-out workouts every day
you'll start to dread it you'll be like
I don't want to do Burpee today right so
quit doing high-intensity workouts every
day and really really focus on just
slowing things down doing your strength
training with your bodyweight or with
whatever you you know found objects you
have in the house and try not to do hit
every day if you want to move go on and
walk do like a 20 minute walk outside at
a brisk pace get your hurried up to like
you know a little bit higher and that
list range 65% if you can that is going
to be more beneficial for your fat loss
efforts and doing it every day
okay the third strategy I have for you
guys to get stronger at home is to do
single leg and single arm exercises
rather than everything with both arms
and legs this is a really good hack for
increasing the load okay the weights
okay the stress and the muscle in your
body and you don't have heavy weights
because think about it if you're doing
using your body meat as the only way you
have if you take a leg away now you've
increased a load by
that a lot it's you know all of your
bodyweight goes to one side of the body
and now you have to focus on lifting
that same weight but with half of your
available muscles so that's one way to
actually naturally increase the load or
the weight that you're lifting at home
without any weights you can do single
leg deadlifts you can do single arm rows
you can do single arm you know push-ups
on the knees there's a anything you can
do on two legs you can modify it and do
single arm or single leg and this is
gonna help so so much also it will build
your core strength because a lot of
times when we do switch to a single leg
or single arm exercise your core has to
kick in double time to keep you from
falling over to keep you civilized keep
you balanced so start looking at
exercises you're doing and adding in
some single leg variants
single arm variants that's gonna help
your strength so much single leg hip
thrust single leg deadlift there's just
so many variations you could do and it's
going to help you get way stronger
honestly I have gotten stronger at home
I feel like just from doing so much slow
stuff doing so many single arm exercises
doing higher sets but not increasing the
reps actually that's gonna be a bonus
tip right now I've gotten so many
questions about overall should I just
increase the rest since I don't have as
many ways I have as much weight don't do
this so when you increase your rep
ranges higher you stop working on
strength and you start working on
something known as muscular endurance
muscular endurance is great it's good
for a healthy body it's functional but
you're not going to be putting on muscle
mass when you do muscular endurance
exercises okay so instead of doing 20
reps of an exercise use tempo slow it
down do your reps between 8 and 15 reps
there so you can build muscle really
feel tension in the muscle use your mind
muscle connection and just increase the
number of sets that you do not rep so
that's like a bonus tip for you guys I
know it's tempting to increase reps but
you're not helping yourself and
long run you're not helping yourself get
stronger or burn fat by doing more reps
like last week those are my three sort
of four really good research-based
strategies for getting stronger at home
if you don't have weights right now let
me know in the comments below which
you've been using if any if any of this
has been helpful for you please give
this video a like and let me know what
you guys want to learn more about and
when any of these strategies happy to do
more in-depth video on it and other that
you guys keep getting strong at home I
know that it's hard but we're powering
through this together and I will see you
guys next week
[Music]